# [Platinum IV] IQ 테스트 - 9334 

[문제 링크](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/9334) 

### 성능 요약

메모리: 32412 KB, 시간: 84 ms

### 분류

수학, 선형대수학, 벌리캠프–매시

### 제출 일자

2026년 1월 14일 20:59:10

### 문제 설명

<p>In many IQ tests, the following type of questions is often given:</p>

<blockquote>Given the ﬁrst few terms of an integer sequence, what is the next term?</blockquote>

<p>For example, if you are given the sequence 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21 you may recognize this as the Fibonacci numbers and write down 34 as the next term.</p>

<p>There is no “correct answer” because the next term can be any integer and still be generated by a polynomial (possibly of a very high degree). In this problem, we are only interested in sequences that satisfy a recurrence relation of the form</p>

<p>f(n) = a<sub>1</sub>f(n − 1) + . . . a<sub>d</sub>f(n − d),</p>

<p>where 1 ≤ d ≤ 3, and a<sub>1</sub>, ... , a<sub>d</sub> are integers. If the sequence satisﬁes multiple recurrence relations of the type above, we will always prefer one with a smaller d.</p>

<p> </p>

### 입력 

 <p>The input consists of multiple test cases. The ﬁrst line of input is a single integer, not more than 500, indicating the number of test cases to follow. Each case is speciﬁed on one line. Each line contains a number of integers: the number of given terms in the sequence n (8 ≤ n ≤ 12), followed by n integers containing the given sequence. Each of the given terms has absolute values at most 1000. You may also assume that the given sequence satisﬁes at least one recurrence relation in the form described above. The ﬁrst d terms in the given sequence are non-zero, for the smallest d for which a recurrence exists.</p>

### 출력 

 <p>For each case, display on a line the next term generated by the recurrence relation selected by the criteria above. You may assume that the next term in the sequence has absolute value at most 100,000.</p>

